“It’s 9:55 a.m. on the first day of my internship at GameCompany. They told me to be here at 10… The office is locked. No one is here yet.”

i “Does everyone really arrive after 10…?”

"I feel so silly. What if someone shows up and sees me standing here looking like a lost weirdo?"

"Maybe I should go around the corner and get a coffee."

"A third coffee."

"Yeah, that’s what I’ll do."

"When I turn around, I almost collide with a woman coming up the office stairs. I give a little yell, but the woman just laughs."

“???” “I guess you’re the fresh blood.”

i “Is it really that obvious?”

“???” “Well, you’re a little overdressed…”

"I look down at the collared shirt and shiny gray pencil skirt I bought at Banana Republic last week. Then I look at the woman’s ensemble. It’s a little bit hip and a little bit goth. She looks like she just walked out of a 90s high school, but in a really good way."

i “I like your outfit!”

“???” “Thanks. I got this shirt in Germany last time I visited my parents. I’m Serena, by the way. And as I recall, your name is…”

[choose your name]

p “Protagonist, right?”

i "Wow. Good memory!"

p "Yeah. It helps with the job."

"She unlocks the office door, and we head in."

"The office's windows are huge, letting in lots of natural light. Its design is sleek and modern, in stark contrast to the messy desks lined up along the walls."

i "What do you do here?"

p "I'm the engineering lead for Astral War."

"Whoa..."

"I'm trying not to look too star-struck."

i "That's amazing."

p "So what are you here for, Protagonist?"

i "Um..."

"The truth is, I'm not really sure. I got this internship because I made a short documentary about competitive gaming for school, and the hiring manager, Ayla, loved it. I know I want to work in games, but I don't have any experience yet. The whole point of this internship is to try and figure out exactly what I want to do."

i "I think I'm going to be reporting to one of the producers, but Ayla said I'll have room to explore a lot of different options while I'm here."

p "Cool. You ever done any coding before?"

i "No..."

p "Want to learn?"

i "Right now...?"

p "Sure. You'd be surprised how much you can learn in a short time."

p "A lot of people think you need to be some kind of reclusive genius to code. But look at me. I'm not reclusive."

i "Um..."

"She sits down at a desk that's nearly empty except for a mug that says 'Animal Haven' on it. Then she pulls up an extra chair."

p "Have a seat and we'll get started."

"I sit down next to her, feeling a little nervous. She opens up a program that looks kind of like Notepad, but more intense."

p "So, programs are sequences of instructions that change the computer's data. That's all a program really is: data, and instructions that modify data."

p "Let's talk about data first. Imagine you're looking at a spreadsheet. And this spreadsheet lists, hmm... inventory items. Yeah, items that are in your inventory."

i "Okay. A spreadsheet listing items in my inventory."

p "In one column, you have the item name. In the next column, you have the item's value in gil. I mean, gold. The item's value in gold."

p "Then, the third column lists how many of that item you have."

"I imagine the spreadsheet in my head..."

[a picture of the spreadsheet appears]

p "So the first column, the name, that's a piece of data. And the type of the data is text. In programming, though, we call that a string."

p "The monetary value would be a floating-point number, meaning it's a number that can have precision after the decimal point. Like 10.25, or 1.50."

p "So what type of data do you think the item count column would be?"

Choice:
- floating-point number
- integer
- string
- number





p "That's right. Great job! The item count would be an integer."

p "If I wanted to declare an integer in code, I'd write this:"

"She types into the program: int count;"

p "To declare a String, I'd write this."

"She types: String name;"

p "And a floating-point number looks like this:"

"float value;"

p "Okay, now I'm going to jump ahead a bit. Give me a minute..."

String name;
float value;
int count;

value = 1001.75;
count = 3;

if (value > 1000) {
  name = "Golden Crossbow";
}
else {
  name = "Plain Crossbow";
}

p "So, what do you think is the value of the name variable at the end of this code segment?

Choice:
- Plain Crossbow
- Golden Crossbow
- nothing
- 1001.75

p "Great job. Now let's try something else..."


String name;
float value;
int count;

value = 10.50;
count = 3;

if (value > 10.50) {
  name = "Golden Crossbow";
}
else {
  name = "Plain Crossbow";
}

function total_value() {
  count * value;
}

function sell() {
  count = count - 1;
}

while (total_value() > 10) {
  sell();
}

p "So, how many crossbows do I have at the end of this code segment?"

Choice:
- 3
- 2
- 1
- 0



p "Awesome! See, that's all there is to it."

i "Really?"

p "Well, no. It gets a lot more complicated than that. But these are the building blocks for everything that comes after."

p "We got through all the basics, and I haven't even had my morning coffee yet. Why don't I show you around the kitchen?"

"She picks up the mug from her desk."

i "What's Animal Haven?"

p "Oh, that's the animal shelter where I volunteer on the weekends. If you like animals, you should join me some time. We could use the help."

"She shows me around the kitchen: snacks, coffee machine, water cooler. I'm starting to really like this place."

"Looking back on what I learned about programming, I think to myself..."

Choice:
- It seemed really cool.
- It was just okay.
- I don't think it's my thing.
